# RevisitingOrreniusandZavodny-2015-
Revisiting Orrenius and Zavodny (2015)

In their paper, Orrenius and Zavodny (2015) investigate if foreign-born students crowd US natives out of science and engineering majors. The estimation is based on a linear probability regression that uses 2009-2011 American Community Survey data. The authors theoretically identify sources of endogeneity that could cause inconsistent results. Therefore, their empirical analysis follows two different approaches. First, an OLS regression is used to obtain benchmark estimates. Second, the authors apply a 2SLS regression to control for and prove a possible bias of the OLS estimation.

Over the last decades, the US economy's demand for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) graduates increased significantly. At the same time, the number of US natives majoring in STEM has stagnated. Since the 1970s, in each age cohort, 15%-20% of US natives decided to pursue a degree in STEM. As a result, the excess demand for STEM graduates attracted immigrants who filled the labor market gap. Therefore, the US economy's dire need for employees with a background in science or engineering was one of the main drivers of the drastic growth in the immigrant population that rose from 5% to 12% between 1970 and 2011. These developments raise the question of an increasing immigrant population's influence on the major choice of US natives. 
Orrenius and Zavodny (2015) argue that, in theory, the immigrant share’s effect on natives' decision to major in STEM cannot be identified unambiguously. The authors describe three possible effects. First, immigrants and US natives compete for educational resources. Thus, a higher share of immigrants in STEM could crowd out US natives. However, this argument is only valid in the short run. Higher demand for educational resources leads to higher investments and, therefore, an expansion in the educational capacity in the long run. Second, higher competition for STEM majors could lead to positive peer effects. More foreign-born students could inspire natives to pursue STEM careers. Third, a higher share of immigrants could adversely affect natives' educational quality. Especially in the early years of school, more students with poor language skills could lead schools to shift educational resources away from STEM subjects. This could demotivate natives to major in STEM in college as they lack basic math and science knowledge.



The results of the OLS and 2SLS estimates show that the share of immigrants negatively affects the probability of US natives majoring in STEM. However, the effect is minimal in all model specifications. Overall, the negative effect is slightly stronger for females than males.
The 2SLS estimates are in absolute values closer to zero than the OLS estimates implying a positive bias of the OLS results.
